So now, let's talk about AWS DataSync.
And DataSync is a service
that is appearing now quite a lot at the exam.
It's a very simple one,
but you need to know what it does and its core.
So the idea as an image,
to indicate is to synchronize data.
Therefore, move large amount of data to, and from places.
And these places can be for example,
on-premises or other cloud locations into AWS.
So you would connect to your server using the NFS,
the SMB, the HDFS, or other protocols,
and it needs an agent to run on-premises
or on the other cloud to do that connection.
And you can, for example, do other types of migrations.
For example, you can move data from one AWS service
to another AWS service.
And this requires no agent.
I will show you what it means.
So the idea is that you can synchronize data
to Amazon S3 including any storage classes, even Glacier.
Amazon EFS, to store into your network file system,
or Amazon FSx, and it supports all of them.
Now, the replication tasks are not continuous.
They are scheduled,
so you can make DataSync run hourly, daily, or weekly.
So there's a lag, okay?
But the data is going to be synchronized on a schedule.
On top of it, DataSync has the ability
to keep the file permissions and the metadata.
That means the security and so on.
So that means that it's compliance
with the NFS POSIX file system and the SMB permissions.
This is very important because at the exam,
this will be the unique option
that will preserve the metadata of your file
when moving them from one location to another.
One DataSync agent can be quite powerful.
It can run one task,
can use up to 10 gigabits of data per second.
Although, if you don't want to max out your network
you can set up a bandwidth limits.
So let's have a look at what it means in the diagram.
So here is the use case of synchronizing
your on-premises files using the SMB
or NFS protocol into AWS.
And that could be S3, EFS or FSx.
So you have your on-premises and then your AWS region
where DataSync is running.
So here is your NFS or SMB server.
And what you have to do is to install on-premises
the AWS DataSync agent, and you will tell it to connect
to your NFS or SMB server.
And then the DataSync agent will establish a connection
and also connect in an encrypted fashion
into the DataSync service.
From there, you can tell it to go wherever you want.
That could be any storage class for your Amazon S3 buckets
or it could be AWS, EFS, or it could be Amazon FSx.
And the synchronization can happen one way
from on-premises to AWS,
but you can also synchronize from AWS back into on-premises.
This is why it's called DataSync.
It can work any way.
Now, sometimes at the exam
we will tell you that we want to use DataSync,
but we don't have the network capacity to do so.
Therefore, what you have to think about
is to use the AWS Snowcone device specifically
because the Snowcone device comes
with the DataSync agent pre-install on it.
So you can run Snowcone on-premises,
then it will pull your data, run the DataSync agents,
then it will be shipped back into your AWS region
and then synchronize your data
to the storage resources of AWS.
So that is to show the architecture of synchronization
from on-premises to AWS, or it could be for example,
another cloud to AWS using the DataSync agents.
But you can also use DataSync to just synchronize
between different AWS storage services.
For example, do you want synchronize between Amazon S3,
or Amazon EFS, or Amazon FSx,
back into Amazon S3, Amazon EFS, or Amazon FSx.
And for this, again,
we will use the AWS DataSync service
and it will copy the data of course,
but also the metadata will be kept
between the different AWS storage services,
which is very important.
And again, something that can come up in the exam.
So to remind you, DataSync can pretty much synchronize
between anything, but it is not continuous.
It is scheduled task that can be happening hourly,
daily, weekly, and also it will preserve metadata
and your file permissions.
And finally, you need to run the DataSync agents
if you are connecting to an NFS or SMB server.
Okay, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.